_Jumpstart Live (JSL)_
# Day 5
## Array Exercises

## Instructions:
Complete as many of the following exercises as you can within the time allotted.

1. Create an array to store 5 names.  Have the user enter in the 5 names and then print out the 5 names in all UPPERCASE all on the same line. Note that the user may not enter all the names in uppercase.

2. Create an array to store 3 boolean values entered in by the user.  Print out YES if all the values are true and NO if at least one value is false.

3. Create an array to store the following words: firetruck, fire drill, fire hydrant, firefighter, fireproof, fire station, fire hose. Print out the contents of the array without the word "fire".

4. Create an array to store the amount of money spent on gifts for 4 family members for their birthdays.  Have the user enter in the amount spent on each family member.  Print the total spent on all the family members.

5. Create an array to store 5 random numbers (between 1 and 10 inclusive) generated by the computer.  Print out the square of each of the numbers.  
_Note: You'll need to use Rubys `rand` method_

6. Create an array to store 5000 decimal numbers. Randomly generate numbers from 0-1 to fill the array. Calculate and print the mean.

#### Challenge Problems:

1. Create an array of people that are invited to a party. Allow the user to ask if a certain person is invited to the party.  If the person is on the invitation list respond INVITED otherwise respond NOT INVITED.

2. Have the user enter in a sentence.  Then, using an array, store the frequency of each letter of the alphabet from the sentence.  Print out the frequency of each letter. Do not count uppercase and lowercase letters differently.

3. Create an array of size 8.  Fill the array randomly with 0’s and 1’s.  Print out the array so that it appears as a binary number.  Calculate and print out the decimal value of that binary number.
